Project: Data Lake

Introduction

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.


Project Description

In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on Spark and data lakes to build an ETL pipeline for a data lake hosted on S3. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3. You'll deploy this Spark process on a cluster using AWS.


Project Datasets

You'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

    Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
    Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json


Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.


Schema for Song Play Analysis

Using the song and log datasets, you'll need to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

Fact Table

songplays - records in log data associated with song plays : songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

Dimension Tables

users - users in app : user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

songs - songs in music DB : song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

artists - artists in music DB : artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude

time - timestamps of records in songplays : start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday



ETL process

1- load the data from S3 bucket then tranform it as needed using spark dataframe methods
2- the tranformed tables with the new schema are exported to S3 bucket,

How to run

1- update dl.cfg with the AWS Secret key id and Access key
2- run : python etl.py
  

